# Minutes from 2017 (1) Curriculum Meeting (30/05/17)

**Facilitator:** @bradreeder

**Time Keeper:** @alexis-l8

**Mood Monitor:**

**Record Keeper:** @eliascodes, @smarthutza, @ZooeyMiller

**Vote Taker:** @Samatar26

**Tech (hangouts):** @des-des

**Tech (screencast & edit proposals):** @des-des

## Attendance and voting


---

## Agenda

The agenda has been ordered by:
 + proposed changes to the [ideal week structure](../../coursebook/general/week-schedule.md)
 + proposed changes to [curriculum overview](../../coursebook/general/curriculum-overview.md)

Changes to each particular week are usually left to [the planning of that week](../planning-weeks.md), but may be discussed if there is time.

1. [Research afternoons](#research-afternoons)
2. [Lightning Talks from your Cohort](#lightning-talks-from-your-cohort)
3. [Teach a lot more HTML/CSS](#teach-a-lot-more-html-css)
4. [Hapi vs. Express](#hapi-vs-express)
5. [Redistribute content of week 8](#redistribute-content-of-week-8)
6. [React](#react)
7. [Front End Engineering Content](#front-end-engineering-content)

---

## Research afternoons
[#261](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/261)

**Status:** <Passed / blocked / not voted on>

**Minutes:**



**Action point(s):**
+
+
+

---

## Lightning Talks from your Cohort
[#254](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/254)  

**Status:**  

**Minutes:**



**Action point(s):**
+
+
+

---

## Teach a lot more HTML/CSS
[#258](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/258)  

**Status:**  PASSED.

**Minutes:**
Clarification: workshops would be only an hour or so not a full half day

Comment: Could pair with project specs to reinforce it.

Reservation: Where are we going to find time for it?

Can find time for it early in the weeks, plus could increase the number of morning challenges throughout the week.

Bigger problem is that someone needs to make them, and someone needs to teach them. Not everyone will be comfortable.

But that’s good because you learn through teaching.

Generally, we want to create an environment where it’s OK to say “I don’t know, lets find out together”.

JS: Have quite a lot of morning challenges already, especially in the first half of the course. We are talking about taking out stuff that exists.

Ollie: A morning challenge wouldn’t necessarily be the right fit for all concepts, some need to be taught. (But still an hour slot)

Zooey: FAC is inherently chaotic, time allocated as needed, so timings needn’t be so exact. The things that are being proposed to be taught are vital, so they should be in the course.

Elias: Maybe the last few hours of the projects would be a good time to focus on CSS/HTML

Jessica: Disagree, because the point is that we don’t learn CSS/HTML best practise. Doing it in projects just reinforces bad practise or we end up not doing it.

Martha: What about dedicating 1 hour immediately after lunch on Tuesdays (compressing research days)?

Brad: Can we delegate the timing decision to the people running individual weeks? They just have the responsibility to find an hour at some point in the week?

Jen: Clarification: is it mandatory to find an hour?

Yes.

Jen: Who has the autonomy to decide when the hour is? What happens if there is disagreement?

Brad: Discussion can continue online via PRs and issues.

Eoin: Need to update the contributing file.

Gone voting…

PASSED.


**Action point(s):**
* each set of mentors, when designing the overview of their week, to find space for a 1 hour HTML/CSS workshop

---

## Hapi vs. Express
[#251](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/251)  

**Status:** PASSED

**Minutes:**
Eran Hammer asking for money now because can’t maintain it.
Eoin:  His patreon just doubled

Zooey: Is there anyone who is willing to completely reformulate the course post-hapi? Everything relies on it after it’s introduced? Basically is anyone going to do this?

Elias: If auth is in vanilla, reduces burden.

Can do 1-week of hapi last.

Should limit the discussion during this issue to what we want to use, and leave whether it can be done to the people who are responsible for the week

Antonio: Would be relatively easy to write new workshop for express since there are so many more resources.

Alex: Goes beyond how much effort to make the week, it’s more about how much documentation there is to support students throughout the course and beyond it.

Jen: Should we have this discussion now or after the auth week?

Finn: Regardless of the other proposal, we’ll still have one framework week, so important to know what should go into that week.

Zooey: The decision can stand, but the time horizon for actioning it might not be in

Olli: What are the reasons for Hapi?

Eoin: More security by default that Express. Important for MVPs, means fewer things can go wrong.

Ronan: Good to know so there are things that we can include in vanilla node weeks

Olli: So we don’t trust ourselves, or its too hard?

Eoin: There’s no “secure”/“not secure”, but “less secure”/“more secure”

Ines: Security, Fully, Open source, Battle tested, Great community, 100% coverage.

Olli: Beginner community good? Not in my experience. Really hard. Loads of people use express so imagine it’s also battle tested

Eoin: Bring up Ronan’s point of Hapi being a config based framework. Good for someone who understands the domain, but not so good for beginners, because you have to know what flags to look for.

Edgar: my concerns are about practicality, but understand that’s separate discussion.

Ronan: Dislike hapi vs express framing. What we’re doing is teaching auth and templating in Hapi.

Zoey: As a framework free course, why do we use a framework at all?

Olli: Idea is to be able to build a full-stack app. No-one really rolls their own node server.

Gone voting…

PASSED



**Action point(s):**
* Mentors for the new week 8 are to assess whether they think that writing this week from scratch is do-able in the timeframe.
* Mentors are encouraged to ask for help from the alumni network
* If mentors think it is too much of a stretch, revert to using hapi week 1 materials

---

## Redistribute content of week 8
[#263](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/263)  

**Status:**  

**Minutes:**



**Action point(s):**
+
+
+

---

## React
[#259](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/259)  

**Status:**  

**Minutes:**



**Action point(s):**
+
+
+

---

## Front End Engineering Content
[#264](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/264)  

**Status:**  

**Minutes:**



**Action point(s):**
+
+
+
