# Winter cohorts - new curriculum planning process

## Attendance
Rebecca (@rebeccaradding)  
Dan (@sofer)  
Lubes  (@mattlub)  
Mavis (@m4v15)  
Jen (@jsms90)  
Elias (@eliascodes)  
Eoin  (@des-des)
Shireen (@shiryz)  
Yvonne (@yvonne-liu)  
Zooey (@ZooeyMiller)  

## Agenda
From [previous agenda](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/501):
+ [Proposal: New curriculum planning process](#proposal-new-curriculum-planning-process)
  + [Meeting up one afternoon a week from weeks 10-16](#meeting-up-one-afternoon-a-week-from-weeks-10-16)
  + [Define the nature of changes groups are permitted to make](#define-the-nature-of-changes-groups_are-permitted-to-make)
  + [Curriculum improvement process](#curriculum-improvement-process)
+ [Weeks 10-16](#weeks-10-16)

Although not formally on the agenda as separate items, the discussion also references the following issues:
+ [Separating the preparation of students from planning of changes to content](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/501)
+ [Whether we plan to enable any curriculum divergence](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/511)

## [Proposal: New curriculum planning process](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/558)
Dan summarises the proposal for the group.

### Meeting up one afternoon a week from weeks 10-16

Shireen:
+ Does this need to happen at the same time in each location?

Eoin:
+ GitHub allows remote interaction, so this may not be necessary, though it is preferable

Elias:
+ How does having staggered schedules impact this process?

Dan:
+ Raising issues over time is fine, but decisions shouldn’t be made before London week 13/Gaza week 11

Brad:
+ Are we communicating to students that they will be expected to contribute to curriculum planning after mentoring?

Dan:
+ Great question, first time around engagement might be lower, but let’s not discount the process

Zooey:
+ Emphasize use of GitHub, which makes it easier for people to engage remotely

Lubes:
+ How do we create the working group? What is your responsibility if you’re in one? How do you contribute to groups you’re not a part of?

Mavis:
+ Would this start in London week 10? And 2-3 weeks later, curriculum committee approves changes? And then working groups are formed to take on the work?

Dan:
+ Students assigned to specific weeks to think about how to improve the delivery, but others can contribute
+ After all three campuses have had a chance to contribute, the working groups need to reach consensus on what they want to change

Shireen:
+ Does this account for divergence?

Dan:
+ Let’s start out trying to build a curriculum that works across all three campuses

### Define the nature of changes groups are permitted to make

Eoin:
+ Suggests the maintainers of the master-reference can use discretion to determine whether a change should be made

Jen:
+ Foresees the issue that people want to scrap research afternoons
+ Doesn’t want this to fall on the maintainers

Brad:
+ What is the remit of a working group?
+ What is the remit of the maintainers of the master-reference?
+ Maintainers need to observe moving parts, and intervene with individual groups to redirect if necessary.
+ Decisions that impact multiple weeks might need to be made by a broader group

Dan:
+ Working groups should suggest changes by making proposals, which would be approved by the maintainers of the master-reference/curriculum committee
+ Likes the idea of individual working groups experimenting with week formats, as long as learning outcomes don’t change dramatically
+ Need to ensure we have checks and balances
+ Feels strongly we should have a curriculum committee

Jen:
+ We’re saying two different things - maintainers act as QAs / curriculum committee decides what changes are made
+ Thinks it is better to discuss changes (during "sprint planning" phase), before all the work is done to actually enact the changes

Dan:
+ Suggests that week working groups raise issues to recommend changes that the maintainers comment on

Zooey:
+ Agrees with Dan, thinks this makes sense in terms of time frame too

Lubes:
+ How is this different than how things work now, where anyone can raise an issue?

Zooey:
+ Dedicate time to raising issues across cohort

Jen:
+ Sounds similar to last time

Zooey:
+ The difference is that it's in smaller chunks & spread over a longer period of time.

### Curriculum improvement process
Rebecca:
+ Maybe discuss what work needs to be done step by step.

Jen:
+ I find it difficult to discuss whether students should meet on one afternoon a week, without first agreeing on what they will be doing in that time.
+ Maybe these steps will help.

Reads out [comment on the issue](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/558#issuecomment-322673532), including:
> Before making changes, you need to
>
> 1. Go through all the workshops from that week & read around the topic, to get to that level of familiarity
> 1. Suggest changes via issues & collaborate
> 1. Attend a sprint planning phase with the working group to prioritise issues & assign tasks
> 1. Work on their portion of the week
> 1. Submit changes for review via PRs
> 1. Review each other's PRs
> 1. Make alterations based on review comments
> 1. Send out the updated workshops for user testing (flagged as a problem every time this step isn't done)
> 1. Respond to new issues, work on updates & submit PRs for review
> 1. Deliver

Eoin:
+ Why do students need two weeks to review the content before they can raise an issue?
+ Students were raising issues on my workshops during/after completing them. We should encourage more of that.

Jen:
+ Students can raise small-scale things at the time like bugs and typos or things they found confusing about the instructions.
+ Taking a screenshot of the errors in your terminal is different to designing / re-designing a workshop that gets concepts across to someone who is new to it. That takes time.

Brad:
+ Has observed students in curriculum planning meetings spending time reviewing/rereading material
+ Time to refamiliarize yourself with material is important, especially if it’s been a few weeks since you interacted with the material

Jen:
+ Echoes what Brad said

Eoin:
+ Possible solution - kick this off before reading week, so students can raise issues during that time

Jen:
+ We could have tried that, but it’s too late now - only 2 days left before reading week for FAC11. They're working on projects and not everyone is in the classroom.

Eoin:
+ Maybe Nazareth and Gaza have time?

Zooey:
+ I agree that people need time, but I think there is a more reasonable time between an hour and two weeks
+ With a minimum of five people on each week, split across the contents of the week, majority of week’s content is over two days, 8-10 hours, it should take at most a week for people to review the content
+ If people aren’t dedicated enough to invest in reviewing the content, we should clarify our expectations to people

Lubes:
+ Two weeks = two afternoon sessions, so 8 hours over two weeks

Dan:
+ There is broad agreement on the proposal, we need to agree to enough detail to kick the process off
+ I like Jen’s formulation, only big question is around point 3, who is involved in sprint planning and what does this actually mean?
+ Suggest we broadly adopt Eoin’s proposal:
+ In advance: course facilitators collaborate to conduct outreach and resource the working groups with facilitators, mentors, and alumni
+ Aim for Tuesday afternoons
+ Kick it off in London for week 10 or 11
+ Have current students choose working groups at that time and then start raising issues
+ Resourcing the maintainer group

Brad:
+ I’m currently planning week 10, how much time do we need to set aside?

Dan:
+ Let’s start week 11 instead

Brad:
+ If we aren’t starting until week 11, we have more time to resource them with facilitators and alumni

Jen:
+ Suggests we start raising issues and get a curriculum committee together ASAP to discuss them
+ At some point research afternoon needs to be discussed!

Dan:
+ Less concerned about getting students involved than about getting a representative group from three campuses
+ We should convene a curriculum committee to manage this process

Mavis:
+ What do we say to people who want to join a curriculum committee?

Rebecca:
+ There are immediate tasks that need doing, the larger question of forming a curriculum committee is less urgent

Dan:
+ Who on the call now wants to be on the curriculum committee?

-- The following people expressed interest --
> Dan
> Eoin
> Lubes
> Mavis (maybe)
> Jen
> MG (in absentia)
> Zooey (maybe)
> Bradley (maybe)

Mavis:
+ I'm a maybe because I don't know what this actually entails

-- Agreement from those who said maybe --

## [Weeks 10-16](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/544)
Dan:
+ There was a meeting yesterday about the 3 week project / week 10

### Determining appropriate resourcing during weeks 10-12 and 13-16 at each campus

Dan:
+ Adequate cover for weeks 10-16?

Jen
+ I don’t know exactly what the plan is for those weeks yet i.e. what roles are needed. But since we have such a large alumni base, I imagine that London will be fine.

Mavis
+ I don’t where I’m going to be
