# Curriculum working group

**Date:** 15 November 2017

**Present:** Elias, Mavis, Lubes, Shireen, Finn, Dan, Rebecca, Ronan, MG, Eoin

- Week 1 
- Week 2 
- Week 3 MG
- Week 4 
- Week 5 Finn
- Week 6 
- Week 7 Ronan
- Week 8 Eoin

## Review of curriculum update process 

#### Ronan
- Happy with overall format
- Week is almost ready, a bit overdue
- Would probably continue as a WF
- Went into the process with low expectations (that nothing would happen), but is happy that some useful changes were made
- Ideally we will get to the point where the curriculum doesn't require formal changes

#### Finn
- Wasn't particularly active, didn't push group when people didn't step up
- Told the whole group to raise issues and work together, led to lack of individual accountability
- Others (such as Elias) took over 
- Wouldn't want to be a WF again, but if he did do it again, would be more assertive from the start and would assign each campus a segment of the work 

#### MG
- Process seemed driven by students opinions
- Thinks cleanup of issues on workshop/challenge repos should be a part of the process
- Doesn't enjoy chasing up people who haven't completed something
- Would consider facilitating again, but would suggest ironing out cross-campus timings, CFs could probably coordinate this

#### Eoin
- Nazareth and Gaza teams seemed to drop off the map, Eoin nudged but didn't push
- Gave London pair some extra time, they seem to be doing a good job making updates
- Process has been okay, as long as students have had the opportunity to provide input, this feels like something good
- Students could be more engaged, thinks this is something we could fix with more support from CF
- Likes long period of time 
- Hasn't committed as much time as he would have liked, but is happy to keep going as WF

#### Dan
- Process has been onerous for some
- Enthusiasm for continuing is not widespread
- Perhaps it should be a smaller group of people who are paid to do so
- We need to think about how to improve the process

#### Ronan
- One person per week is fine
- Reframing might help the process - WF are not expected to oversee any minimum number of changes
- Workload should decrease next round
- Cross campus hangouts were onerous

#### Eoin
- We're trying to solve a difficult problem
- In favor of tweaking the process rather than overhauling it
- Use GitHub and Gitter effectively, scrap attempts at Hangouts

#### Mavis
- Part of the problem was that we made the plan up as we were going through the process
- Now that we have an idea of what the process will look like, things will probably feel smoother
- Would be idea for CFs to meet with WFs, but not sure if this is feasible

#### Elias
- Minimise incentive to make changes
- Clear expectations for WF
- Major issue is interface between WF, MR maintainers, and CFs - who is responsible for ensuring the coherence of the curriculum as a whole
- Clarity of roles will go a long way
- **Who decides what goes in the curriculum?**

#### Lubes
- In the recent process, WF presented changes and the group approved them
- Question - how much as WF did you "impose" your ideas on the students? How much did you feel you affected the choices they made? 

#### Ronan
- Expected to have to do a lot of overruling, but good discussions came up, treated the group as a committee that needed to come to consensus, brought in alumni when he disagreed with the students

#### Shireen
- **Who decides which changes get made?**

#### Mavis
- If we have a set of FAC curriculum values/principles, then WF have a structure according to which to evaluate student suggestions

#### Eoin
- Maybe a distinction between a WF and an owner/maintainer of the MR would be helpful
- Proposals could be made to owners, who have time to review them

#### Dan
- Are voluntary roles sustainable or do we need to find budget for WF and maintainers of the MR?

#### Eoin
- Start by engaging CFs who are paid staff
- Inclination is to try to source alumni volunteers as much as possible

#### Mavis
- Alumni volunteers are ideal, but it's hard to get consistency over time when people are unpaid (hard to make meetings mandatory for volunteers)

#### MG
- Sometimes we use resources hosted outside of the `master-reference`
- We need a process for handling suggested changes when `master-reference` doesn't own resources

#### Eoin
- All resources should be migrated to the FAC repository
- Open question about who maintains them

#### Elias
- MR needs at least 3 (maybe) active maintainers
- Responsible for maintaining coherence of curriculum, that resources are up to date, express desired tone/principles of curriculum

## Action step:

On Friday, November 17 at 13:00 London (event on FAC calendar, link in Hangout), @sofer will meet with @eliascodes @des-des @ronanyeah @m4v15 and any other interested parties to prepare recommendations on the following issues:

- A curriculum style guide
- A description of the role of the WF
- A description of the role of the CF in the curriculum update process
- Various issues related to `master-reference` maintenance

The wider group is invited to reconvene on Friday, November 24 at 13:00 (event on calendar, link in Hangout) to review the recommendations and address the next set of action steps.
