## Meeting September 5, 2017

**Attendance:**

_London:_ Sohil, Jen, Eoin, Yvonne, Finn, Jessica

_Nazareth:_ Joudy, Katia

_Gaza:_ Ronan

### 1 - Working group goals

*Current remit:* to support the integration of any changes suggested by each of the campuses into the curriculum

Minutes:
- London has approved a curriculum charter, but it is less relevant in light of having three campuses
- If something is being planned that crosses campuses, there should be representatives from each campus involved

### 2 - Defining and assigning week facilitators

**Role:**
- Single point of contact for each set of students working on a week
- Provide week group with informed recommendations based on prior experience with the curriculum 
- Communicate week group recommendations to working group
- Communicate a schedule for completion of curriculum updates within the week group

Volunteers for weeks 1-8
1 - Jen
2 - Zooey
3 - Jessica (possibly alternate)
4 - Yvonne
5 - Finn
6 - Sohil
7 - Ronan
8 - Eoin

Outreach (Eoin): Shireen, Mavis, Lubes, Ollie, Zooey, Elias, MG

**Minutes:** 
- Jessica - I like the idea of having communication between the group and the students, but the scheduling can be time consuming and unproductive. A schedule could be set for completing curriculum materials in enough time.
- Sohil - someone will always end up having to chase, so we might as well have guidelines
- Rebecca - the deadlines should have a buffer so problems can be identified within enough time
- Jen - it is difficult to be scrum master and product owner at the same time. Representing the curriculum, and the mentors at the same time is difficult. One person could be responsible for each
- Eoin - the deadlines should be week agnostic, and loosely enforced
- Rebecca - deadlines will involve discretion on the part of the facilitator
- Jessica - deadlines should not involve discretion and should be standard
- Weeks can be shared between multiple people
- Jen - Can course facilitators also week facilitators?
- Eoin - yes
- Rebecca - would be good if they had support from an alumnus also


### 3 - Timeline

In advance open 8 empty issues in `master-reference` for each of the 8 weeks (needs one volunteer) and assign the volunteer facilitator from the curriculum working group

_Week of September 11_
- Get students to assign themselves to each of the 8 weeks
- Groups review the week materials and SGC notes for the week from all three campuses and to comment on the relevant issue, summarising the notes from all three campuses and make a prioritised list of any suggestions for changes (in the issue)

_Week of September 18_
- CF need to identify one time slot for all three campuses to have their meetings
- Volunteer facilitators meet (remotely) with their groups at one time for all three locations to review issue for the week and to prioritise the suggested changes

_Week of September 25_ 
- Time allocated for students to browse issues for all weeks, reading input from all three campuses and offering comments to other groups
- Individual groups meet with their facilitator (remotely) at the same time to review suggested amendments
- Week facilitator prepares a list of amendments/updates for approval by the working group
- Curriculum working group meets
- Week facilitator assigns people in their team (or outside of it) to carry out approved updates/amendments and sets a schedule for completion
- All amendments must be merged into master, four weeks in advance of delivery in London, so that changes to Week 1 will need to be merged in by October 13th. If they are not, then changes will not be merged for another 4 months, at the earliest

**Minutes:**
- Eoin - main output from the first week 1 5pm meeting, the presented material should be a github issue, not slide presentation etc
- Jen - could the first 3 hour block be split into 2?
- Eoin - should the 3 campuses be brought into sync for the planning?
- It gives London less of a lead time but the advantage is better collaboration between cohorts
- Shireen - The early weeks will not change much so London would be able to cope
- Lead time will increase for each working group as the curriculum progresses
- Jen - are we saying that students are responsible for the updates to the curriculum?
- Rebecca - students are only responsible for providing feedback to the week facilitator

### 4 - Future goals of this working group

Possible tasks for this group: 
- Draft an updated charter that reflects the cross-campus nature of this committee, to be approved by each campus
- Draft a statement describing the philosophy of our curriculum
- Update the learning outcomes of the curriculum
- Based on the experience of this working group, draft an updated process for engaging the community in making iterative improvements to the curriculum
- Determine a process for designating maintainers of the `master-reference`

Suggested workflow:
- Decide how frequently to meet and set a meeting schedule in advance
- The working group discusses one of these issues at each future meeting
- Divide up tasks among interested individuals/pairs, who moderate discussion issues and prepare a list of questions or proposal (if appropriate) for the meeting where the issue is to be discussed

