# Curriculum Planning Meeting

## Week 2 TDD
 - Zooey is week 2 facilitator
 - Tape TDD code-along: make sure there is a focus on testing and not get bogged down in solving the problem
   - Confusion could arise from currency
   - Proposal: Introduce TDD with fizzbuzz, shorten this workshop by half an hour
   - Or: Make a new workshop entirely, using something harder than fizz buzz easier than Dwyl one
   - The first option was chosen (Explain better using fizzbuzz)
 - Pure functions get rid of QUnit 
 - Traffic lights: Add explanation for 1st class functions
     - Unclear whether this would better at the start of the challenge, the day before the challenge, or in the hint file
     - Currently on morning of day 2, swap with Dom manipulation challenge on day 3
 - Add DOM manipulation to research topic
 - Project: 
     - People struggle with cloning arrays, could add a helper function so people don't get bogged down in it 
     - Mentors could explain boilerplate better

---
- Zooey asks if he is to decide who makes the changes out of his group?
- Reb: Seems like we have fallen into the role of discuss with your working group about who wants to do what
- Mavis: So when do we set aside time for people to make these changes?
- Jen: Will set aside time to do it next monday and the mondaay after in London
- Mavis: Ok so by next monday Week Facilitator should communicate with the group what the assignments are for the students


## Week 1 Toolkit
- Jen
- Add course overview talk to week 1 (what happens each week)
- Move pair programming to afternoon to give more time to course overview
- Move intro to research topics into research afternoon
- Explain how to code review, 15 min intro
- Move presentation prep to right before presentions (this is basically already down)
- Make sure the pair programming exercise is about pairing not finishing the challenge
- Move solutions from branch to folder
- Change git workshop to code along for the first hour
    - lubes is against this, doesn't think it will help, can it be changed in another way to improve it
    - Jen agrees but isn't comfortable overuling them necesarrily
- Research - keep some elements but not all of it
    - some felt very unnecesary
    - hard to know what else to do though
    - Code explain how to code review, how to google, dev tools
- Walk students thorugh how to make a repo
- Show students pomodoro timer

***Research afternoon discussion***
- Rebecca: We shouldn't mandate removal wholesale, but if a week wants to remove it and replace it with something else they can
- Jen: Unsure what to replace week 1 research afternoon with
- Dan: Could move project forward a couple of hours
- Rebecca: Use Dan's suggestion as a fallback, otherwise brainstorm with group for what 
- Curriculum WG will also all think on it

## Week 3 API

- MG
- Intro:
    - add examples for diff between GET and POST
    - Intro what ajax is (the term)
    - Include how xhr requests handle redirects
    - note to mentors to go through each section at time intervals

- xhr:
    - brief intro to postman from a mentor
    - add more detailed instructions

- api workshop:
    - code coverage was not covered enough

- flexbox challenges
    - good, maybe change when they happen, see below 

- parrallel functions
    - switch so this happens in the morning, flexbox froggy in the afternoon would be better, dice challenge next day morning
    - better explaination of implementation and when to use
    - include visual representation (youtube)

- Software architecture
    - more interactive
    - should be topped up later on when server is introduced

Mavis: How do week facilitators implement proposed changes to things outside of their week

Jen: ask everyone now

MG asks this question, will post it on the relevant issues

Jen: Maybe youtube not the best for parallel functions

Mg: I think if there is a good one we should use it

## Week 4 node 1/2

- Codealong:
    - add checkpoints, type until there then go back and explain it
    - Add a debugging section
- es6 morning challenge:
    - confusing, add an intro
- Heroku is important, would like a short technical guide
- Research is fine, maybe make more interactive
- Example guide of good file structure - happened in london not in other campuses
- Add resource of common/core npm modules

Yvonne: When we planned week 4 we could turn the research afternoon into a miniproject that covers the topics, rather than a workshop on heroku

Jen: People have talked in london about passing data from front end to the back end, did that come up

Lubes: It came up, and was discussed as being a problem, but we didn't have a solution

Jen: It seems to be a problem in London
Jen: someone made a debugging workshop from FAC9

## Week 7

- Focussed on the 3 workshops
- Big scope on the project - Naz built ontop of week 6 maybe we should do this
- No massive changes, content was good, jsut mild rewrites

MG: maybe we need to take into account when introducing week 6 project 
Ronan: Yeah maybe we should mention it but it might change everything in that project
Jen: It happened in fac10 (weeks 7/8) and got taken out, maybe look into that
Lubes: It worked well in Naz, but I don't know whether it will be beneficial to mention it in week 6, we can just assume it will.
Jen: In the project it says client and server side validation is expected, don't think we introduce these concepts enough to expect that. Could introduce in node week

---
## Action steps

Rebecca: Deadline for weeks 1-4 should be merged by final day of week 16 in London (week 15 Naz, week 14 Gaza)

- Week facilitators go out and assign tasks by Monday 2nd October
- Week facilitator and maintainers of MR should be assigned to changes
- Week facilitator should be the one to make the final merge
- Campus CF's will find time in the schedules for people to make these changes (a day or 1/2 day once a week)
