# Summer cohorts - planning for week 10 ( / whole internal project)
## Attendance
Noga, Bradley, Jen, MG, Shireen, Dan, Yvonne, Mavis

## [Agenda](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/583)

+ [Weeks 10-16 schedule](#weeks-10-16-schedule)
+ [UX/UI week name change](#ux-ui-week-name-change)
+ [Who are the Product Owners?](#who-are-the-product-owners)
+ [Can students build on a project that already exists?](#can-students-build-on-a-project-that-already-exists)
+ [Facilitating the creation of self-selected student groups](#facilitating-the-creation-of-self-selected-student-groups)
+ [Quality of project proposed](#quality-of-project-proposed)
+ [Direct students to use prototyping tools in week 10 instead of HTML & CSS](#direct-students-to-use-prototyping-tools-in-week-10-instead-of-html--css)
+ [Ensure that user testing is incorporated into week 10 & 12 in all locations](#ensure-that-user-testing-is-incorporated-into-week-10--12-in-all-locations)
+ [Document/prepare resources that can be used across campuses](#document-prepare-resources-that-can-be-used-across-campuses)
+ [AOB](#aob)
  + [Tech choices](#tech-choices)
  + [Group sizes](#group-sizes)
  + [Ceremonies & planning](#cermonies-and-planning)
  + [Timing in London (bank holiday)](#timing-in-london--bank-holiday)


## [Weeks 10-16](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/500)
Dan summarises the plan for the 2nd half of the curriculum, just to make sure everyone is familiar with the new outine.
+ 2 long-form projects with similar structure  
i.e. 1-week design sprint followed by 2-week build sprint.
+ First is what the students want to do
+ 2nd with real client
+ Week 13 is going to look slightly different for each campus

## [UX/UI week name change](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/269)
Noga:
+ Bradley & I propose renaming this "design thinking week"
+ Students expressed desire to have more UX concepts. These are really good concepts to learn about but it's not really what we're trying to do: introduce user-centred design approach.
+ The aim of the week is to introduce developers to this kind of thinking and making developers active members in the design process. We want devs to feel like it's part of their job to say what they think about these kinds of things.

Bradley:
+ Other advantage - a lot of that material already exists. If we were going to make that down a UX kind of bent, a lot of material would need to be created. We don't really have time for that.

Noga:
+ Students will have a dry run before building with clients. When we do get to do it with real clients, we don't ever deal with UX and UI. We go for more of a design thinking approach.

Jen:
+ Total agreement. When we brought the 3-week project forward, this was intended as a design sprint. Week 10 is about teaching them how to conduct one successfully.

Bradley:
+ If we want to repeat it across campuses, people in Nazareth have already been introduced to concepts like crazy 8s. If we try to introduce UX concepts now, we don't necessarily have the expertise to make the successful across campuses.

Noga:
+ This is a massive subject that designers battle. We can definitely give people links.
+ Met with Bradley and Harry about what we would like to do this time around. Very similar to what we've done with FAC10.
+ Maybe a couple of changes. Not sure exactly what these are going to be.

## [Who are the Product Owners?](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/580)
Noga:
+ Give students chance to pitch own ideas but another team take on the idea & they would become the PO for that team?
+ We are aware that people are attached to their own ideas, so we thought we would just encourage them to get experience of being a Product Owner. But if someone really wants to PO & build, don't stop them.

Jen:
+ How do students divide their time between the group they're building with and the group who they are PO for?

Noga:
+ If we stagger the stand ups like last time, people can attend the other one's stand up.

Jen:
+ That's only 15 minutes per day :+1:. But what about sprint planning?
+ Are we even introducing ceremonies to the internal project? We didn't have these for FAC10 and FACN1 until the client projects.

-- Digression - discussing what happened for the spring cohorts. --

Mavis:
+ Isn't it a problem that people pitch the ideas because they want to make them?

Noga:
+ Just need to set expectations

Dan:
+ If people pitch 2 ideas, they could be PO for one and dev team for another.

Jen:
+ Other questions:
  + If someone pitches a FAC product, can an alumnus / Dan be PO?
  + Can non-students pitch ideas?

Mavis:
+ Weird dynamic if mentor pitches an idea

Dan:
+ Agree that this would be useful as an exercise for the students.
+ Useful to do as an internal project
+ Rather than having me or another member of FAC intervene, we can just be a domain expert in the space that POs can go to. Should keep this a student-led project.

## [Can students build on a project that already exists?](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/553)

Noga:
+ Fine, but should start from scratch so they are in the same place as everyone else with the design-thinking

-- Agreement --

Jen:
+ Makes sense to scrap what they've done so far for week 10, so they get the most out of the Google Ventures tasks. But can they reuse the code once the build sprint starts?

Bradley:
+ Up to them if they re-use code?

Noga:
+ They won't be making the same code

Dan:
+ Treat the prior code as spike.
+ More useful to throw code away

Yvonne, Jen & Mavis: Agree

Mavis:
+ Their previous code is only something they hacked together in 2 days. They will probably want to re-write it.

## [Facilitating the creation of self-selected student groups](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/578)

Jen:
+ How will selection happen?

-- Discuss concerns around cohort cohesion & pastoral care --

Yvonne:
+ Personally think that people should still be allowed to pick a project that they work on
+ Done anonymously and mentors help pick that out for them.

Mavis:
+ What we did in Nazareth goes some way to preventing problems. We had all the project written down, with 1-3. Shireen and Eoin then grouped them.

Bradley:
+ Pastoral care walks, have we asked people who they want / don't want to work with?

Jen:
+ I have.

Dan:
+ That's not a topic I've broached yet.

-- Discuss pastoral care --

Mavis:
+ We decided the groups the same day. Maybe it's harder in London because you don't have the evening to talk to people about it?
+ Take pre-emptive steps. Go for walks with people. Explain our reasoning.
+ Eoin kind of did that with us, if he knew the group someone was in was likely to be a struggle.

Jen:
+ I'm happy to be one of the people who select the groups after preferences have been stated. I don't think I should do it alone, but whoever does it with me should know the dynamics of the group & know the individuals.
+ Dan are you free that week to do it with me?

Dan:
+ Yes, absolutely.

## [Quality of project proposed](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/587)

Yvonne:
+ Wish we were encouraged more to pitch an idea
+ Weren't that well thought out. Wish they had been stronger ideas.
+ You have the opportunity to be a PO
+ For me and Finn's project, I wish we had known.

Noga:
+ I think the aim is to build a prototype / MVP, so there needs to be ideas that are solving a specific real-world problem.
+ We described it as an actionable problem.
+ Needs to be something they care about. Something that clearly solves a real-world problem.

Jen:
+ That's totally fair. I do intend to speak to FAC11 this week, to clarify everything before reading week & I can talk about choosing an "actionable problem".
+ Dan & Bradley, it would really help me if I could see your slides from the talks you've given clients at the ideation sessions?
+ But I think it's more than whether it's a good idea or not. The hardware project was something that people felt passionately about & solved a real-world need. But it just didn't lend itself to the design sprint, because it wasn't website-focused. So design sprint exercises and user testing didn't mean the same, when the empahsis wasn't on the GUI.

Yvonne:
+ It's just a 2 week project. Keep the scope small.

Noga:
+ Alexis' pitch was really great. Platform that connects young people who need an apartment with an old person who has a room.
+ The idea of this week is how to boil down a huge idea into an MVP.
+ Other option is looking at the ideas as well.

Mavis:
+ Hardest part is ideas that are really good but unfeasible in 2 weeks.
+ Needs an experienced dev.

Yvonne:
+ Have a mentor sit down with them and help them scope out their idea.

Noga:
+ They should think about the feasability of that project.
+ Don't think we should interfere with the projects.

Mavis:
+ Not the end of the world if they try to bulid something for 2 weeks and it's too big.

## [Direct students to use prototyping tools in week 10 instead of HTML & CSS](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/576)

Noga:
+ I know it happened in Nazareth & Gaza

Mavis:
+ We used HTML & CSS

Noga:
+ We didn't intend people to.

Bradley:
+ We just recommend it & give an intro to using invision and figma at the start.

Noga:
+ It's really easy to learn

Bradley:
+ Oli's team were adament that they wanted to use HTML & CSS. I'm not going to force them.

Noga:
+ Aquaints them with a tool.

Noga:
+ I'll give them a walkthrough
+ If someone wants to film that or do a screencast.

## [Ensure that user testing is incorporated into week 10 & 12 in all locations](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/577)
+ Campuses did user testing last time

Noga:
+ Because we are encouraging them to be POs, they should go away in reading week & figure out who they would like to use as a user testing base.
+ Important thing is that they're real people.

Mavis:
+ We didn't really know it was going to happen

Noga:
+ By the end of it you get a whole flow that you test with people. Even if they're crappy

Jen:
+ Pull in Nick, who did the week 12 user testing session in London.

## [Document/prepare resources that can be used across campuses](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/579)
Noga:
+ Bradley has done an amazing job of putting these materials into GitHub. So you should have the day to day unfolding of week 10.
+ We are going to try as much as we can to work on that repo so that they can be followed in both Nazareth and Gaza.
+ But there is a limit to that. The person delivering it needs to be interested in that stuff.
+ The idea is to take them through the Google Ventures process, which most of us went through. Only thing I can say is that we can try to make it transferable. But whoever does it in Naz & Gaza will need to spend time and prepare.
+ Students mock up something that they will then build for the next 2 weeks.

Noga:
+ Really happy you're here, Yvonne & Mavis
+ Do we know who is doing this?

Mavis:
+ Me, Lubes, Shireen all there in week 10. Potentially Jack Davies

Noga:
+ Workshop following a video from IDEO. You just need materials.
+ The idea of that workshop is that in 1-2 hours, it's a taster of the whole design thinking cycle.

Braldye:
+ Wanted a less personal challenge. Pick a different problem.

Noga:
+ We might do another problem. But Nazareth might just follow the video

Mavis:
+ I'm happy to do this week in Nazareth but I would like support.

Shireen:
+ If you have some time, maybe add mentor notes?

Noga:
+ There is lots of it already there that Harry did. But we will go through the materials and as much as we can, make sure it's transferable.

Jen:
+ So who is working on this? Bradley (week 10) and me (week 11-12)?

Noga:
+ I'll definitely try and help, but I do have a full-time project on at the moment.

Mavis:
+ I can't find the user testing notes on github.

Bradley:
+ Need to find Nick's github repo.

-- Discuss who is delivering these weeks in Gaza --

## AOB
### Tech choices
Bradley:
+ They can use whatever they want?

Mavis:
+ Similar

Bradley:
+ People might decide to do that over reading week.

Jen:
+ Give them the choice. Point them to doc that Eoin made and Elias improved on.

### Group sizes
Mavis:
+ Group sizes are whatever works out?

Noga:
+ 2, 3 or 4

### [Ceremonies, Scrum Master role](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/582) & [planning techniques](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/581)
Jen:
+ Should we introduce ceremonies e.g. sprint planning, stand-ups, sprint review, sprint retro? We only did this in client sprints and beyond before.
+ If the aim is to explain Agile & we're doing ceremonies, we should introduce the Scrum Master role as well as Product Owner.

Noga:
+ Definitely should mirror what we do post-course.

-- General agreement --

Jen:
+ Who, if anyone, from this group wants to be involved in / is available for weeks 11-12?

-- None --

Jen:
+ Is everyone happy for me to intro this, if we don't have others in the space to do it?

Dan:
+ Strongly agree with getting other people in the space as involved as possible.

Jen:
+ I'm hoping Cleo might be interested and I'll definitely reach out and try to find people. Just saying, if not, it might default to me.
+ Happy for this to go ahead on day 1 of the build sprint?

-- General agreement --

Noga:
+ Might be able to get Ines to record something?

### Timing in London (bank holiday)
Jen:
+ Planning on delivering 5 days, with user testing on the first day of the next week (missing 1 day of build sprint?)

Noga:
+ Yes. That's the plan.
